Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee,
spending within the past week took action on two bills of importance.
The first was the so-called Clean Elections Bill.
After a number of amendments were adopted on the floor, this bill was passed
by a vote of 59 to 22 and went to the House of Representatives.
The bill strengthens the requirement for reporting of campaign expenditures
in quite a number of ways.
It places a $10,000 limit on the amount any individual can contribute to any camp.
It requires reporting of campaign contributions and connection with primaries
as well as general elections involving federal officers.
It requires reports from states and local committees spending more than $2,500
for the benefit of federal candidates.
It also provides the detailed financial statements be filed with federal district courts
where they will be available to the press of the various states,
as well as with the clerks of the House and of the Senate.
The bill makes campaigns spending limitations more realistic
and puts teeth on a law which has been for all practical purposes,
loosely drawn and largely ignored.
An amendment that I introduced did not pass.
I reintroduced this in form of a bill and hope that further consideration may be given it.
My amendment was designed to encourage small contributions to campaigns
by a much larger number of citizens.
It would permit a $10 tax credit or $100 tax deduction for campaign contributions.
Turning to another subject in the field of juvenile delinquency,
the Senate passed a bill which would provide grants to the states
for study demonstration projects on a nationwide scale.
The bill would also provide funds over the next five years
for the training of personnel to work in the juvenile delinquency field.
Juvenile delinquency, as we all know, is one of the most serious major problems in the nation today.
It has been steadily increasing for the past ten years.
Few communities have escaped its impact and it can no longer be thought of as being confined
within the boundaries of neighborhoods, local communities, or even states.
The effects of juvenile delinquency are violent, disrespect for human value,
and property value, and a most dangerous weakening of our moral structure in our society.
I'm happy that the Senate has taken this positive step toward attacking this problem
and hopeful that the House will concur in the action.
I was happy to be a sponsor along with Senator Hinnings of this legislation.
As I make this broadcast to you in Tennessee,
to you in Tennessee, the Senate is debating a constitutional amendment which I have proposed.
This amendment would empower the governors of several states to fill vacancies
and the House of Representatives in case of a nuclear attack on Washington.
Several attempts have been made in the past to get similar amendments passed, but they have failed.
I'm hopeful the Senate and the House will pass it this time with resounding majorities.
I believe the amendment is more urgently needed today than ever before.
It would plug a loophole in our Constitution which could not have been foreseen by our founding fathers.
If a nuclear attack should occur in heaven for bed that it should,
it is almost certain that a large number of congressmen would be killed or fatally wounded.
Under the law as it now stands, only the House of Representatives could not be quickly reconstituted after a devastating attack.
Vacancies in the judicial branch and in the Senate could be filled by appointment.
A long line of succession is provided by the Constitution and federal statutes for the Office of Chief Executive.
Vacancies in the House of Representatives can be filled only by election of the people.
If a nuclear attack were to wipe out half of our congressmen, it would be vital that the government get back in action as quickly as possible
and the House could not act if a point of no quorum were made on the first day.
My amendment would enable the governors to appoint vacancies in the House of Representatives for a period of 60 days only.
The primary argument against this amendment is that it is born out of fear and panic.
To me this is the same as saying that a husband should never buy a life insurance or fear of frightening his wife or that a parent should not have his child vaccinated for fear of frightening the child.
I am working hard for the adoption of this amendment SJRS39 and hope we will be able to amend the Constitution to take out this serious loophole.
That's all for this time. Thank you and goodbye until next week.